hi it's bill with Molly after market Inc
also it's bill with Cleve ight here to
talk to you today about coated bearings
now it's not that my budgets really
tight cuz you see I've only got two
little samples here problem is this time
of year I spend more time at the
racetrack than I do in the office and I
didn't do a good job gathering up lots
of coded samples but let me talk to you
about coded bearings in the last 10
years we've seen are coated bearing
sales just skyrocket you know used to be
a little bit of our race bearing sales
was coated and now I bet thirty maybe
forty percent is coated and that doesn't
count of course what our customers buy
from us uncoated and then sent out to
their favorite coder so a number of
reasons for coated bearings first one is
that the coatings and most of today's
coatings are a PTFE you know that is the
the common name for Teflon which is a
trade name PTFE based coatings and they
tend to be fairly tough they also tend
to be slippery and they reduce the wear
reduce the friction between the
crankshaft and the bearing another good
thing about coatings is that because
they're slippery if we have a marginal
oil film we talked about that last time
in part two of this series if we have a
marginal oil film this is less likely to
seize to the crankshaft the coating is
then the soft Babbitt overlay here so
that's another reason for coated berries
a third reason is matter of fact let me
show you this sample here in this sample
bearing this is from a Alcohol dragster
and you'll notice there's a big hole in
the middle of the bearing where the
overlay is going and that's a phenomena
called cavitation
and a coated bearing helps reduce that
cavitation because the surface strength
of the film of the coating is better
than the surface strength of Babbitt so
it tends to reduce that tendency to
start the cavitation so the number of
reasons for coated bearings now an
interesting part of the story I wanted
to share with you is the fact that this
will replace thing we're now thirty
bearings are at the OE level we're
coating bearings today on our menu
fracturing plants going into new cars
and trucks both in the US and Europe and
interestingly two places copy that you
wouldn't even think of where the market
is one is these little engines that we
call start/stop engines I don't know if
you've driven any of these cars but
these are cars when you pull up to a
traffic light and stop for a you know 20
30 seconds or longer for the light to
turn the engine quits and then when the
light turns and you take your foot off
the brake the engine starts up and away
you go again start/stop technology well
every time the engine shuts off and
restarts it's hard on the crankshaft in
the bearing because you have to
reestablish the oil film every time and
this could be literally 30 40 50 60 70
80 100 times a day if you lived in a big
city so really hard on bearings really
hard on crank shafts
so we're supplying coated bearings to
those kind of engines to reduce the wear
of the parts make those engines live a
long life the other place that we're
selling coated bearings at the OE level
is little small diesel engines
especially popular in Europe and growing
in popularity here high cylinder
pressure means lots of load lots of load
means pressure on the oil film
pressure on the oil film means
possibility for the bearing disease to
the crankshaft coating comes into play
and reduces that possibility so we've
gone from a performance part to an OE
part and we'll come back and complete
that circle sometime soon when we bring
OE technology and materials into some
new coatings thanks for tuning in